Welcome back.
We're going to talk about some advanced objects concepts.
Now, as I said, with both arrays and functions, these are advanced concepts.
You're probably not going to just get it 100% the first time around.
But use these videos as a reference to come back as you progress through your career.
Now in this video, I'm going to talk about three things that are important with objects.
We're going to talk about.
Reference type.
We're going to talk about context.
And finally, we're going to talk about instantiation.
So let's get started with the first one.
Reference type.
What I mean when I say reference type.
Well, I want you to see if you can guess what's going to happen when I do array equals array.
What do you think the answer is going to be?
Let's see.
Hmm.
Interesting.
Okay.
What if I do array one equals array one?
Interesting.
Okay.
One more question.
What about something like this?
Object one equals.
Value of ten.
And we'll say object.
Two equals object one.
And we'll finally say variable object three.
Equals.
Value ten.
So looking at these.
And I'm actually going to copy it on here so you can see it as well.
Looking at this.
What happens if I do object one equals object two?
What do you think will happen?
True.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I mean, object to is object one.
But what if I do object?
One equals.
Object three here I get.
False.
But why is that?
We have value ten.
Value ten.
They're both the same thing.
Right.
Let's check something else.
What if I do object one value?
Equals 15.
Okay.
And now I do object to value.
It equals 15.
But if I do object three dot value.
I get ten?
Well, that was confusing, right?
Let's look at what's actually going on.
And this is the first topic we're talking about, which is reference type.
Let's look at a diagram.
Objects are what's called the reference types and JavaScript.
Up until this point, all the other JavaScript types that we've learned, including numbers null.
We have.
Undefined.
Booleans strings, even symbols.
They're all defined by the programming language.
So JavaScript.
The person who wrote JavaScript and to script the standard says.
These are primitive types.
We tell you what they are now.
A reference type, which is a non primitive type, are not defined by the programming languages.
What that means is that they are created by the programmer.
So let's look over here as an example.
When I say variable number one equals one.
JavaScript knows what one is.
It's a number and it's a primitive type.
It's always the same thing.
It's immutable every time it uses a one that's the same one that JavaScript knows about.
When I do variable number two.
Yeah, it's using the same number one that JavaScript knows about.
However, when we created Object one equals value ten, an object two equals object one.
An object three equals a value ten.
Well, those are created by the programmer.
There are reference types.
So what we said was, I want.
Object one, create a new object.
We'll say this box over here, this filing cabinet.
And in it put value ten into this box.
Object to says I want you to just reference.
And that's where the word comes from.
Reference object one saying, hey, I want whatever's inside this box.
When Object three gets created, it's a new object because we have the new brackets.
And it's saying put value ten in this box.
Essentially what we're doing is saying when we create variable object one, we're storing just a reference,
an address to where we're storing the value ten, which is box one.
So we're saying object one.
I'm just letting you know that this is the address of all the contents that you want, and that's in
box one.
Object to is saying I want whatever is an object one and we look an object one.
An object one just has the information of box one.
So it references that.
An object three creates a new object.
So it's saying, I'm going to put my contents in box three and I'm just going to have the address of
the box saying box three.
That's right over here.
So going back to our example.
This makes sense.
When we change object one value to 15, we change the contents of box one.
So when we do object to value, which is referencing the same box as object one, that's 15.
But object three value doesn't change because that's, that's interested in a completely different box.
It's box three and going back to the first example.
Arrays?
Well, as I mentioned in previous videos, arrays are just objects at the end of the day.
So when you create an array, it's the same thing, creating a box, a data structure.
And this is creating a second data structure.
All right.
So that is reference type.
A very important concept.
But I think I think you get it right.
Let's get to the next one.
This gets a little trickier.
This one's called context.
And context gets confused a lot with scope.
If you remember, we said that scope is created when it sees curly brackets.
Right.
We said that if we create a function, as soon as we create that function, there is a new scope that's
created.
So we can have.
Let a.
Equals A and that lives within this universe.
It doesn't know anything about the root scope which is over here.
So if I do console.log a well, it's not going to work.
Oh, and we need to actually assign something and we need to name it.
So let's just say B so if I do this.
Well console.log.
A We'll just return reference there because it doesn't exist.
So that's scope.
Now how is context different?
Context tells you where we are within the object.
Let me explain.
If we say console.log this.
Well, you see, I guess I'm highlighting and this is the first time we're seeing this and it's a special
word in JavaScript, probably the most confusing word that a lot of people have trouble in.
Even people that have been in the industry for years still have a difficult time with this.
But let's see what it is.
This is, as you can see, the window object.
So just to double check if I do console.log, this equals window.
I get true.
And I can access this dot alert.
Hello.
So what this means is.
What is the object environment that we're in right now?
The best way to think about it is what is to the left of the dot.
So right now I'm able to do alert because I'm inside the window object.
So doing window or doing this is the same thing.
Now.
Why is that important?
Well, when we get to instantiation, I'll show you why it is.
But it's a very important concept that you'll see again and again.
But remember, this just refers to what object it's inside of.
Two more examples to demonstrate this.
One is, if I do function A within function A will say console.log.
This.
So if I call a what do you think happens?
Let's see.
Still the window object.
This still refers to the function.
And if you remember, that's because I said it has to be what object we're inside of right now.
Technically function a I can go window dot a and run the function so to the left of the dot.
Well, that's the window.
In order to create a new value for this, you have to do something.
Like this.
Object.
A function.
A.
Now, if I do function.
And within here I do console.log.
This.
Well, in that case, if I copy this and run object for a.
Well, now this is the object.
Which is object for.
So why is that important to us?
Well, first of all, you'll see it in other bases.
So it's good to know, but it's really important when we do instantiation.
Instantiation is when you make a copy of an object and reuse the code.
Imagine you're building a big multiplayer game online and this game is going to have many, many players.
You can have wizards, you can have trolls, warlocks, else.
Now, if you had to create an object for every single player, that's a lot of repeated code, that's
a lot of hassle and that's a lot of your time and it's not very efficient.
To solve that.
You can do something called instantiation.
You're making instances or multiple copies of an object.
So let me show you how we do instantiation in JavaScript.
Again, this is going to look a little bit weird at first, just like for loops did, just like functions
did at the beginning, but it's just the syntax and you'll get used to it.
So let's say we have a player class.
Now you see the new syntax already and I capitalize a class.
Now think of a class as something that I want to make a copy of.
If I ever want to make a copy of an object, it's a good idea to do something like this so that.
Well, you'll see how easy it is to copy this now.
So we do class player.
And within here, we'll say constructor.
And I know this looks weird, but again, it's just syntax.
Let's give it.
This player can have a name and a type.
And within the constructor.
This star name equals name.
And this type.
Equals.
Type.
Oh, boy.
What this happened here.
Constructor When you create a class, a player class says every time I'm making a copy of a player,
the first thing that gets run is the constructor function.
And this constructor function is going to create these properties on the player object.
So a name and a type.
And now I can create anything that I want for the player.
Let's say we want to create a method such as introduce.
That.
Console DOD logs.
With tactics.
Hi.
I am.
And again, we remember this syntax template strings, this dot name.
I'm a this dot type.
So now I'm saying this player class, any player that I create will always be able to introduce themselves.
And they'll also have this.
Name and this type.
And the reason we use this here is that when we create a player, we can access the name and type property.
I'll show you later on how that works.
But this is just a syntax you're going to get used to in order to access the player and make copies
of it.
You'll have to run a constructor, which is all the properties and methods that you want the player
to have.
You can also create methods that players can have, and any time you want to access a property within
the constructor, we'll use this name.
If I want to use introduce, I'll have to do this.
Introduce.
Okay, so we have a player, but when we're building our multiplayer game, we want to now copy this,
but add on to it.
Let's say we have what we want to create a wizard player.
A player that's a wizard.
In that case, we would do class wizard again.
Capital letter.
Extends and again is just the JavaScript keyword player.
So what is this thing I'm saying?
I want Wizard to extend whatever player has.
So I want to add on top of whatever player has.
Again because it's a class.
We'll have to do a constructor.
And this wizard is going to accept name and type.
And within here, this is the tricky part.
Any time we extend something, we need to also call the constructor function of the player.
We have to do something called super with the properties that we want to pass to the constructor in
this case, name and type.
I know this is confusing.
It's just something you have to do whenever you extend a class.
You want to use super so that you essentially have access to these.
Okay.
So let's say that with the wizard, we also want to have a play function and the play function will
just console.log.
We I'm a this type.
And now.
That we have our wizard.
What's the power?
What's the reason that we just did this?
Now we can do this instead of constantly creating players and then saying that they have they are wizards
and they can play.
Now I can say Wizard one.
Equals new wizard and we'll call the first wizard again.
We get name and type, so we'll say.
Shelly.
And she'll be a healer.
And if I want to create a new wizard, I'll just say wizard.
Two equals new wizard.
Sean and he is dark magic.
Well.
That was a lot of new syntax.
So let's go through it and make sure we understand everything as we've learned.
Let's use console log to really understand what we're doing.
I'm going to add a console log right of the top over here.
And we'll say this.
What is this?
I'm going to save.
And actually I'm going to copy this into the console.
Let's copy it.
And see what the console.log gives us.
We see that we get wizard.
All right, let's go through everything here.
I say we have a class player, then a class wizard that extends player, and then we have two variables
that we create Wizard one and Wizard two.
Now the program is going to see the new keyword, and any time a sees a new keyword, it says, Oh,
we're creating a new wizard.
And this wizard is going to have two parameters, Shelley and healer.
So it's going to go to.
The Wizard class again because it has this new word.
It goes to the Wizard class.
And it says.
Hey, Wizard, I want you to extend.
Player So it's going to go to the constructor and it's going to see this super.
And what this does is it takes us up to the constructor of the player and it runs this and now it attaches
this.
As the wizard, and then it introduces the new function and then adds the play function.
Now, if I go to Wizard One.
And I say play.
I get we I'm a healer because Shelly's a healer.
But I also have access to the wizard one.
Dot introduce.
Hi.
I am Shelly.
I'm a healer.
And we also have access.
To Wizard to.
Oh, I have to run this again.
Let's run this again.
And I don't think I copied the second wizard last time.
So now I have Wizard.
To introduce.
Hi, I'm Sean.
I'm.
I'm a dark magic.
That sentence doesn't make sense, Sean, but that's okay for now.
Let's just try something.
If I do console.log.
Here.
And we'll just say.
Wizard.
And here we'll say player, just so we can distinguish between them.
And I'm only going to copy the first wizard so that we don't get two of these running again because
we're creating two wizards.
We're going to have this run twice.
But just for our sanity, we'll run.
Shelley.
So I'm going to refresh and add here.
I forgot to add a comma.
And let's refresh.
And I get an error.
Reference error.
Musk calls Super Constructor and derived class before accessing this.
What that's saying is that in order for me to access this and get this type, I have to call super,
which runs a construction function in player.
So that's what super is doing.
It sounds kind of weird, but it's just something that you need.
I'm just going to put this at the bottom after we call super.
And now it should work.
Let's see.
I get.
The first player wizard.
So we call super.
As soon as we say new wizard Shelley Healer, I go to the wizard extends player.
I run the constructor function which says Super, hey, run the constructor function and the player
and I run that and that's why we log console.log player first and then.
We go to console.log wizard.
And then run the rest of the class a very cool.
Now, just to show you something, this is actually new syntax that you'll see in React, and it was
part of ES6.
But back in the day, this is how we used to do it.
The exact same code I have.
Up there.
Is right here.
It's called classical inheritance, and it doesn't look too too bad.
But you see that there's a prototype, which it's another thing that you'll see in JavaScript.
And to be honest with you, you shouldn't really use it.
It doesn't look very nice.
And you see that we have to attach play to both Wizard one and Wizard two and.
It just doesn't look as nice as this.
And once you get used to everything, it's not too bad.
All we're saying is, as soon as we say class, we say, Hey, we're probably going to make a copy of
this object.
So we want to make copies of player.
We want to make copies of Wizard, and that's called instantiation.
When I do the new keyword, I say make an instance of wizard, and wizard uses some functionality from
the player and adds its own little play function as well.
Holy moly, that was a lot.
Like I said, this is something that you'll have to come back to and you won't get it right away.
It's really, really hard to fully understand the topic without actually having to use it in real life.
Just keep this in mind.
Every time you hear somebody talk about reference, type or context or even scope or instantiating something,
well, these are the things that they're talking about.
Objects are really, really complicated.
They're really hard.
But with that, it gives us a lot of power.
So with that.
Good luck with the exercises.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.